Front end regression automation testing framework
=============

Introduction
-----

Selenium + Cucumber-JVM framework aims for front end regression testing. In this framework the acceptance criteria written in plain English are translated into the Java code by Cucumber. Selenium is used to drive the browser. Test parameters like URL, test data and message etc are managed by Yaml files. Finally cucumber report is generated to display test result.

Prerequisites
-------------
* Install and config Maven (http://maven.apache.org/download.cgi, download apache-maven-3.3.3-bin.tar.gz or above)
* Install Java 1.8
* Install Chrome driver and IE driver

* Optional -- Install cucumber execution terminal with color (https://github.com/adoxa/ansicon/downloads, download ansi160.zip  --follow its read me)
* Optional -- Install eclipse cucumber feature file editor which can highlight Gherkin key word
 
Setup
-----
Import the source code as Maven project, run "mvn clean install" to install maven dependency.
stash repository:  https://stash.aws.qantas.com.au/projects/AMS02/repos/front_end_regression_test/browse


Framework structure
-------------

* Feature files:  feature files are written using Gherkin language based on the behavior-driven development (BDD) style of Given, When, Then. Cucumber-JVM consumes feature files to generate test code.

* Step definitions: implement feature files in java code

* Page objects: page objects are used to abstract the interactions between a user and a web page. Selenium is used to drive the browser.

* Yaml files: yaml files are used to manage test parameters, you can define the test environment URL, test data and message etc.


Execute test scenarios
-----
To execute tests locally, execute the following commands: 

	mvn clean test -DEnv="production"  -DBrowser="chrome" -Dcucumber.options="--tags @widget --tags ~@wip" 

Options:  
* [DEnv]test, integration, staging, blue and production. Using Configs.ENV by default.  
    	  Attention! 'blue' is a virtual environment. If blue provided, execute staging tests against production environment.  
* [DBrowser]chrome, firefox, ie. Using Configs.browser by default.  
* [Dcucumber.options]Overwrite tags in RunCukesTest.java if provided.  
* [DProxy]run bamboo CI plan should with proxy setting "on", if run locally, set to "off" or without proxy option

	mvn test -DEnv="staging" -Dcucumber.options="--tags @pat" -Dbamboo_pat_admin_username="XXXXX@qantas.com.au" -Dbamboo_pat_admin_password="XXXXXX"
-- run flight offer pat E2E tests, pass the variables needed for single sign on

Cucumber Tags Description
-----
* Env: @test, @staging, @production, @envall
	Each test scenario should have one or more environment tags. A scenario with @envall tag will be executed under all environments.
	
* Priority: @priority
	This tag is used to categorise test cases with priority. CI only run priority test cases by default. 
	Usage: it still has the capability to run other test cases by indicating variable 'scope=p2' or 'scope=all'.

* Widget: @widget @aemintegration
	@widget tag is mandatory for widget provider regression test.  
	Usage: Provide @aemintegration if you want to execute the widget test cases through an AEM page. In this case similar to widget url, you should configure the page url in yaml.
	
* Local: @local
	@local test cases will be ignored from CI running. 
	Usage: It is mainly used for local testing demands, such as external fare finder.

* Reset: @reset
	With @reset tag, web browser will be closed and reopened in teardown to clean cookie, local storage and other temporary data.
	Usage: It is commonly used test cases involving frequently flyer login, flight search and other form submit.

* Wip: @wip
	Test cases with @wip will be excluded in any case. 
	Usage: It can be used once a test case temporarily moved out of the scope or QA works ahead of the schedule.


Cucumber report
-----
After executing tests, navigate to below folder to check pretty cucumber html reports, screenshot is captured if scenario marked as failed: 

/Target/qantas-cucumber-report
* feature-overview.html
* qantas-tests-XXXX.feature.html
* tag-overview.html


Important Information
-----
* add your feature files under src/test/resources/features/
* add your step definition under src/test/java/stepdefinitions/
* add your page object under src/test/java/com/qantas/pages/XXX( XXX stands for items on mega menu)  
* put common function under src/test/java/com/qantas/common/
* git commands:
	
	git clone https://XXXXX@stash.aws.qantas.com.au/scm/ams02/front_end_regression_test.git (clone the repository, XXXXX is your staff ID)  
	git status (check git status, like which branch you are working now)  
	git checkout -b <branch-name>  (create a new branch)  

	git status (before check in code, check code status, like which files are changed, which files are added, etc)  
	git add <files need to check in> (check in some files)  
	git add --all (check in all changed files)  
	git commit -am "comments for code check in"  
	git push origin <branch-name>  


* Before merge branch back to master, do rebase first, then merge.
* Follow the below steps before merging your changes from feature branch to Master  

	git checkout master  
	git pull origin master (this is to get the latest version from master)  
	git checkout <branch-name>  
	git push or pull to make sure you have the latest version in your branch as well.  
	git rebase master (resolve any conflits)  
	git push origin <branch-name> (use -f for the force push if there has been changes made to commit comments or you have squashed commits)  


Notes
-----
1. For flight offer PAT E2E scenarios, need to configure "pat_admin_username" and "pat_admin_password" variables in bamboo for single sign on function
2. For ManageYourUpdates feature, the login credentials for test email (username/password) is qantastester@gmail.com / Qantastester1 
3. If any further questions or thoughts, please feel free to reach jun.sheng@qantas.com.au  
